cube-zero


Description:
------------

	3D video game and game engine.

	Battle in single player mode fighting alongside the Hellknight.
	Together you must rid grafland's wild frontier of hopping 2 legged 
	pragma spawns. In order to do this you may have to battle until your 
	alliance is lost! Or you may choose to edit a new reality and create a 
	structure with which to defend yourselves from the ever encroaching 
	pragmas and the evil they represent.

	Image of cube-zero's gameplay:
	scrots/grafcube.png


Technical Description:
----------------------
	
	Cube-zero is a (complete) rewrite of the Cube 1 game engine. It focuses
	on the daunting task of rewriting the game in idiomatic C, removing
	ancient compiler warnings/incompatibilities and creating new free
	textures with which to build games. Cube 1 is over 20 years old. 
	Cube-zero helps to bring it back to life and create a new free building 
	and learning environment for free software enthusiasts and developers. 
	Incidently, These changes also allows the game to be sold for commercial
	gain in its entirety as per its permissive MIT and zlib licensing.


Changes:
--------

	All non-free textures were removed from the package base.

	The enet library is now completely removed from the source code. This
	dropped 3400 lines, greatly increasing the readability of the project.

	3000 lines of compiler warnings were fixed by researching each warning 
	and adding the needed changes. No extra compiler flags are used to 
	suppress these warnings.

	A method for translating and moving code out of the game and into a 
	seperate C library was established. This code is located under 
	src/c-game/ and over 1000 lines have been translated to C and put into
	it.

	Multiplayer modes were removed. This dropped nearly 1000 lines of code 
	and helped to narrow the game down to its initial intended implementation 
	of a single player game.

	A model-editor was included with the packages. It's relatively hard to
	hunt down a model editor that will edit the old quake md2 player models
	so the inclusion of the editor helps to solidify the project and ensure
	significant future changes.


Model Editor:
-------------

	A free ware version of the Quake MD2 player model editor is included
	with cube-zero. This program needs to be ran in the WINE windows
	emulator. It would be nice to replace this with a source code version
	of Blender3D or mm3d that would run and compile natively on linux.

	To use the model-editor invoke it with `wine'. Here is an example which
	opens the "hellpig" player model for editing:

		wine model-editor/MDL.EXE packages/models/monster/hellpig/tris.md2

	You will need to have the WINE windows emulator installed. If you are
	using a debian or ubuntu based distro it can be installed with:

		sudo apt-get install wine

	To edit the model wire frame click the tab labeled "C" and then click
	"build face". At this point you should be able to click and drag to
	modify the player model. 
	
	An image of the editor in use:
	scrots/model-editor.png


Building:
---------

	On a Unix-like system invoke `make' in the main directory.

		make 

	Legacy systems are not supported.

	Several development headers are required. If you are using a 
	debian or ubuntu system you can them using:

		sudo apt-get install libglu1-mesa-dev
		sudo apt-get install libsdl-dev
		sudo apt-get install libsdl-image1.2-dev
		sudo apt-get install libsdl-mixer1.2-dev



Run the game:
-------------

	make run

		or

	./bin/grafcube -t

		or fullscreen mode:

	./bin/grafcube


Project Goals:
--------------

	Write as much of the game as possible in C.

	Remove superfluous features.

	Replace all textures with ones gathered from the field.

	Write new music for the game using mainly acoustic cello.

	Create new sound effects, weapons and MD2 objects.

	Create a new MD2 player models with an open source license.

	Remove non-free components.


Editing:
--------

	/waterlevel N	Set water level at N

	/map mapname 	Load a map

	/newmap		Create a new map

	/savemap	Save a map

	insert key	toggle floor textures

	/perlin		Generate terrain automatically


Website:
--------

	http://www.csit.parkland.edu/~cgraff1/cube-zero


Revision Control:
-----------------

	https://github.com/cmgraff/cube-zero


Contact:
--------

	cm0graff@gmail.com


References:
-----------

	http://assault.cubers.net/docs/cubeengine.html

	https://opengameart.org



